.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Anthony J. Bentley <anthony@anjbe.name>
.\"
.\" This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
.\" License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
.\" file, you can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
.Dd April 20, 2018
.Dt MGBA.INI 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mgba.ini
.Nd mGBA configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a configuration file in INI format that specifies behavior of the
.Xr mgba 6
emulator.
Like every INI file, it consists of
.Ar key Ns = Ns Ar value
pairs, one per line.
These settings are contained in sections, whose titles are wrapped in brackets
[].
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic width
Width of the emulation window in pixels.
.It Ic height
Height of the emulation window in pixels.
.It Ic fullscreen
Boolean.
If 1,
the window will take up the entire screen.
.It Ic gb.model
SGB, MGB, SGB2, CGB, AGB?
.It Ic sgb.model
???
.It Ic cgb.model
???
.It Ic logLevel
Log messages during emulation to
.Dv stdout .
The value is a bitmask defining which types of messages to log:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
1 \(en fatal errors
.It
2 \(en errors
.It
4 \(en warnings
.It
8 \(en informative messages
.It
16 \(en debugging messages
.It
32 \(en stub messages for unimplemented features
.It
256 \(en in\(hygame errors
.It
512 \(en software interrupts
.It
1024 \(en emulator status messages
.It
2048 \(en serial I/O messages
.El
The default is to log warnings, errors, fatal errors, and status messages.
.It Ic shader
Pathname of the shader to use (???).
.It Ic bios
Synonym for
.Ic gba.bios .
.It Ic gba.bios
Filename of the Game Boy Advance BIOS.
.It Ic gb.bios
Filename of the Game Boy boot ROM.
.It Ic gbc.bios
Filename of the Game Boy Color boot ROM.
.It Ic sgb.bios
Filename of the Super Game Boy boot ROM.
.It Ic sgb.borders
Whether or not to display Super Game Boy borders (for games that support them).
.It Ic useBios
Boolean.
If 1,
.Xr mgba 6
will execute a BIOS or boot ROM on startup corresponding to an existing
.Ic gb.bios , sgb.bios , gbc.bios ,
or
.Ic gba.bios
setting.
If 0,
.Xr mgba 6
will use its built\(hyin BIOS emulation,
which in certain games may result in less accurate emulation.
.It Ic skipBios
Boolean.
If 1,
and a BIOS or boot ROM has been enabled,
.Xr mgba 6
will skip displaying the Nintendo Game Boy logo animation.
.It Ic audioBuffers
The size in bytes that
.Xr mgba 6
will use for audio buffering.
.It Ic sampleRate
The audio sample rate in hertz.
.It Ic videoSync
Boolean.
Whether or not to synchronize video (???).
.It Ic audioSync
Boolean.
Whether or not to synchronize audio (???).
.It Ic frameskip
How many frames to skip between displayed frames.
Improves performance at significant cost to emulation quality.
.It Ic fpsTarget
???
.It Ic autofireThreshold
???
.It Ic lockAspectRatio
Boolean.
If 1,
when increasing or decreasing the window size,
.Xr mgba 6
will force the window to keep the same aspect ratio.
.It Ic lockIntegerScaling
Boolean.
If 1,
when increasing or decreasing the window size,
.Xr mgba 6
will force the window to an integer multiple of the default size.
.It Ic volume
Audio volume.
.It Ic mute
Boolean.
If 1,
audio is muted.
.It Ic rewindEnable
Boolean.
If 1,
rewind is enabled (???).
(Caveats?)
.It Ic rewindBufferCapacity
How much memory(?) to devote to rewind history,
if
.Ic rewindEnable
has been set.
.It Ic rewindSave
???
.It Ic resampleVideo
???
.It Ic allowOpposingDirections
Boolean.
If 1,
allow pressing left and right, or up and down, at the same time.
Some games don't expect this capability
and display unexpected behavior when it's used.
.It Ic suspendScreensaver
Boolean.
If 1,
.Xr mgba 6
disable the operating system's screensaver while playing.
.It Ic pauseOnFocusLost
Boolean.
If 1,
.Xr mgba 6
will pause emulation when it detects that it no longer has focus.
.It Ic savegamePath
Path to store save games.
(Default value?)
.It Ic screenshotPath
Path to store screenshots.
(Default?)
.It Ic patchPath
Path to search for patch files.
(Default?)
.It Ic cheatsPath
Path to search for cheat files.
(Default?)
.It Ic showLibrary
Boolean.
If 1,
???.
.It Ic preload
Boolean.
If 1,
preload the entire ROM into memory when emulating.
(Benefits/Caveats?)
.It Ic showFps
Boolean.
If 1,
display the number of frames per second.
(Where?)
.It Ic cheatAutoload
Boolean.
If 1,
automatically load cheats on startup.
.It Ic cheatAutosave
Boolean.
If 1,
automatically save cheats as soon as they've been set (?).
.It Ic autoload
???
.It Ic autosave
???
.It Ic libraryStyle
.Bl -tag -compact -width xxxx
.It 1
List view.
.It 2
Tree view.
.El
.It Ic fastForwardRatio
???
.It Ic idleOptimization
???
.It Ic loadStateExtdata
???
.It Ic saveStateExtdata
???
.El
.Ss Bq ports.qt
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic lastDirectory
The last location that a game was loaded from.
.Xr mgba-qt 6
will default to this directory when it opens the file load dialog.
.El
.Ss Bq gba.input-profile. Ns Ar gamepad
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic axisDownAxis
.It Ic axisDownValue
.It Ic axisLAxis
.It Ic axisLValue
.It Ic axisLeftAxis
.It Ic axisLeftValue
.It Ic axisRAxis
.It Ic axisRValue
.It Ic axisRightAxis
.It Ic axisRightValue
.It Ic axisUpAxis
.It Ic axisUpValue
.It Ic device0
.It Ic gyroAxisX
.It Ic gyroAxisY
.It Ic gyroSensitivity
.It Ic hat0Down
.It Ic hat0Left
.It Ic hat0Right
.It Ic hat0Up
.It Ic keyA
.It Ic keyB
.It Ic keyDown
.It Ic keyL
.It Ic keyLeft
.It Ic keyR
.It Ic keyRight
.It Ic keySelect
.It Ic keyStart
.It Ic keyUp
.It Ic tiltAxisX
.It Ic tiltAxisY
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mgba/mgba.ini
Default
.Xr mgba 6
configuration file.
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mgba/config.ini
Synonym of
.Nm
for backwards compatibility.
.It Pa portable.ini
If this file exists in the current directory,
.Xr mgba 6
will read
.Nm
from the current directory instead of
.Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mgba .
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Jeffrey Pfau Aq Mt jeffrey@endrift.com
.Sh HOMEPAGE
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Lk https://mgba.io/ "mGBA homepage"
.It
.Lk https://github.com/mgba-emu/mgba "Development repository"
.It
.Lk https://github.com/mgba-emu/mgba/issues "Bug tracker"
.It
.Lk https://forums.mgba.io/ "Message board"
.El
